EUROPEAN COMMISSION

MEETING MINUTES

Date:

Online Meeting with Wind Europe (WE) – 30 June 2026, 11:15

Location:

Teams Videoconference

Name(s) and
function(s) of the
Commission
representative(s):

DG ENER representative: Pierre Schellekens, Director Energy
policy: Strategy and Coordination

Name(s) of the
interest
representative(s):

Participants from Wind Europe: Pierre Tardieu, Marija
Dabrisiute, Vasiliki Klonari

Subject matter:

Insert a brief description of the topic(s) discussed, e.g. Exchange
of views on Electrification Action Plan; Electricity taxation;
Accelerating renewable deployment (Grids Package); Support
for electrification including the Industrial Decarbonisation Bank,
ETS Investment Booster and other relevant financing
instruments.

Main points
raised and
positions
expressed:

-

-

-

-

-

-

Wind Europe:
presented their view on the 15th of July Package, arguing
that everything needs to be mutually reinforcing (EAP,
ETS, grids charges)
presented their view on the need to leverage the ETS
reform as an opportunity to channel those revenues
towards industrial electrification.
presented how they see the largest gains being
electrification of low temperature industrial process heat
(< 500 degC)
Presented their suggestion to prioritise this sector for
financing, tax interventions, network access, ease of
signing PPAs. Innovation Fund is a possible vehicle for
this, but needs to be lighter procedurally, and redeployed
towards industrial electrification.
Presented their interest in knowing what specific measures
will be proposed to make electricity-to-gas price ratio
better, and how those industry customers can be targeted
Tech neutrality focus can actually increase system costs

while prioritising domestic RES and already commercial
technologies can reduce such costs.
Also very interested in flexibility needs assessments

•
-

-

-

-

Conclusions:

DG ENER:
presented the overall direction of the Package along with
the synergies between the different pieces (ETS, EAP,
network charges/taxation proposal).
briefly outlined the ongoing work on the EAP, the main
barriers including electricity-gas price ratio, the focus on
end-use sectors but also on supply and flexibility to drive
down prices, and on those technologies that are ready to
electrify, while also looking at innovation.
Implementation of current legislation as well as Grids
Package negotiations were also briefly touched upon, with
WE very active on those fronts.
On flexibility needs, clarified that we keep up to date on
literature findings including WindEurope’s studies. Also
advised them to also talk to ACER for the FNAA and share
their studies.

N/A

2

